CHASS Course Guidelines and Procedures 
To support student success in the enrolled sections of each course, instructors should review and, if applicable, consider sharing the following information by the first day of the course, either digitally or in writing. 
Instructor’s name, office address, e-mail address, regularly scheduled class meeting times, and office hours for out-of-class consultation in accordance with NCSU REG 02.20.13 Instructor Availability. 
General Education Program (GEP) outcomes for courses that satisfy GEP requirements. These outcomes should mirror the stated GEP outcomes in the Course Inventory Management (CIM) system.
Discussion of course structures (e.g., group activities, lectures, discussion, labs, field trips, studio, etc.) that are instrumental to the operation of the course and successful completion thereof.
Additional discussion regarding the assessment of student performance in the course, if needed. This discussion must align with the syllabus and may clarify:
The relative value of the various evaluation components of the course and expectations for each component. 
Instructor’s policy on late assignments, including the impact of late assignments on the grading of the assignment and the course grade for that element. 
The requirements and procedures for auditing the course. This information must align with NCSU REG 02.20.04 Audits.
Attendance and Makeup Work
While an instructor may determine the attendance policy in accordance with regulation, faculty should include discussion of the instructor’s expectations and procedures for submitting excuses for absences and scheduling makeup work for excused absences. These expectations and procedures must align with NCSU REG 02.20.03 and any related information included in the Course Syllabus. Faculty should include clear instructions about the impact of unexcused absences, the process for makeup work, including a timeline, and the consequences of not completing makeup work. 
Academic Absence Verification is available only for extended absences exceeding one week, such as military service, legal requirements, immediate family bereavements, or serious health issues like surgery or hospital stays. Students should request approval from the Office for Equal Opportunity at the start of the semester if they anticipate missing class for a religious holy day. For all other absences, instructors provide excuses as outlined in the course syllabus.
Schedule of Activities
The best practice is to include a note that the schedule of activities is subject to change with appropriate notification to students. The schedule of activities may contain:
List of major topics and approximate time allocated to each.
Projected schedule of readings, assignments, quizzes, and tests.
Required field trips and other out-of-class activities, if any.
Laboratory, studio, problem sessions, field work, or other component meetings, if any.
Class Communication Plan
Faculty should include a communication plan in their syllabus for temporary changes in course modality due to unforeseen circumstances. For instance, notifications about these changes should be communicated via both email and learning management system (Canvas or Moodle). 
Non-cost-bearing instructional materials, activities or components in excess of those listed in the Course Syllabus.  
This list should include a notification, if applicable, that students are expected to provide their own transportation to participate in any component of the course, including, but not limited to, field trips or internship sites. Note that all cost-bearing required materials, activities or components must be included in the Course Syllabus.
Transportation Statement
If applicable, students must be informed whenever they must provide their own transportation. 
A statement on safety and risk assumption, where applicable, in courses requiring a laboratory, physical activity, field trips, studios, outdoor activities, transportation, and other special activities. Instructors should consult with their department on the appropriate wording. Safety issues must be shared with the student at the earliest opportunity.
Academic Integrity
The instructor’s expectations, procedures, and penalties associated with academic integrity in the completion of course requirements. The instructor should include the Pack Pledge and the statement, “Violations of academic integrity will be handled in accordance with the Student Discipline Procedures (NCSU REG 11.35.02).” Instructors should clearly outline academic integrity expectations in the course, particularly regarding the use of generative artificial intelligence (AI), and discuss these expectations in class, ideally on the first day, using a slide. The OSC provides resources for promoting integrity. 
Disability Resource Office (DRO)
It is the student’s responsibility to work with the Disability Resource Office (DRO) to establish accommodations and to have these accommodations or Course Policy Adjustments (CPA) in place with the instructor at the start of the semester. Requests made after deadlines or significantly into the term may delay the ability to provide timely support.
All accommodations and adjustments must align with class policies and the fundamental academic requirements of the course while still facilitating equal access.
With that in mind, faculty should add the following statement regarding NCSU support for students with disabilities: 
“Reasonable accommodations will be made for students with verifiable disabilities. To take advantage of available accommodations, students must register with the NC State University Disability Resource Office. For more information on NC State’s policy on working with students with disabilities, please see the Academic Accommodations for Students with Disabilities Regulation (NCSU REG 02.20.01).”
Student Mental Health 
Consider including the mental health syllabus statement from the college’s Embedded Clinician, Dr. Jamaal Scott, below, or incorporating this slide on the first day of class or your class Moodle site. If you think a student needs additional support, consider submitting a CARES Referral so that a Prevention Services caseworker can reach out. Please submit Progress Reports when students miss multiple classes, exams, or significant assignments. This helps alert advisors and others at the university to potential issues.
Mental Health Statement: As a student, you may experience a range of personal issues that can impede learning, such as strained relationships, increased anxiety, alcohol/drug concerns, feeling down, difficulty concentrating, and/or lack of motivation. The Counseling Center at NC State offers confidential mental health services for full-time NC State students, including same-day emergency services. Individual appointments can be made by visiting the Counseling Center Get Started page and following the instructions under Make an Appointment. A full overview of campus wellness resources can be found on the WolfPack Wellness website (https://wellness.ncsu.edu). Please do not hesitate to get connected early for the support you need to be successful. 
CHASS also has an embedded counselor, Dr. Jamaal Scott, located in room 116 of the 1911 Building. Students can sign up for the drop-in sessions by submitting a request through his Let’s Chat form. Individual appointments with Dr. Scott or questions about other mental health services can be made by visiting the Counseling Center’s Get Started page and following the instructions under Make an Appointment. A comprehensive overview of campus wellness resources is available on the WolfPack Wellness website. Feel free to reach out to the Counseling Center early so you can get the support you need to succeed.
Additional resources include Pack Essentials if you face financial challenges or food insecurity, and the CARES program where you can refer friends or classmates in need of immediate support. If you're unsure about how to assist a student or advisee in distress, and you want to discuss options or need support in navigating available resources, policies, rules, and regulations, feel free to Gchat, email, or call James Mulholland (515-3490 and mulholland@ncsu.edu) and/or Carol Ann Lewald (515-3425 and calewald@ncsu.edu).
Digital Course Components
List of digitally-hosted course components, if any, such as Moodle, Zoom, Mediasite, Canvas, or other posting sites and forums or digital technologies. Instructors will identify any components that may raise privacy, copyright, or accessibility issues for students so these issues can be addressed during the course drop/add period. 
If the instructor is recording class sessions in a way that might also capture students, the instructor will inform the students in writing. Students will be allowed to opt out of recorded class sessions and participate through other means, if a recording identifying them will be used beyond the current semester or in any other setting outside of the course.
If the instructor uses software to detect the originality of student submissions, students will be informed of the software being used, which assignment(s) it applies to, and resources they can use to check their work before submitting.
Instructors should judiciously consider the privacy, copyright, and accessibility of supplemental links provided to students and warn them of any known issues or concerns in this regard. See Online Course Material Host Requirements (NCSU REG 08.00.11).
One of the following statements is suggested:
For use in courses with online exchanges among students and the instructor, but NOT persons outside the course: 
“Students may be required to disclose personally identifiable information to other students in the course, via digital tools, such as email or web-postings, where relevant to the course. Examples include online discussions of class topics, and posting of student coursework. All students are expected to respect the privacy of each other by not sharing or using such information through any means outside the scope of the course.”
For use in courses where student information may be accessible to persons beyond the instructor and students currently enrolled in the course:
“This course may involve digital sharing or posting of personally identifiable student work or other information with persons not taking or administering the course. Students will be asked to sign a consent form allowing disclosure of their personally identifiable work. No student is required to sign the consent form as a condition of taking the course. If a student does not want to sign the consent form, s/he has the right to ask the instructor for an alternative, private means of completing the coursework.”
Class Recording and Panopto
The university automatically records lectures during scheduled classes, but faculty can choose to opt out or edit recordings. For details on this practice, federal laws regarding student privacy (FERPA), copyright laws, and opting out, please refer to the Classroom Capture/Lecture Recording FAQs document. DELTA also provides pre-recorded webinars, how-to videos, documentation, and live support for learning about Panopto, the university’s lecture capture system.
Syllabus Recording Statement 
To protect the privacy of all students and to maintain a respectful and inclusive learning environment, unauthorized audio or video recordings and photographs of class lectures or discussions are strictly prohibited. Please note that unauthorized recording and distribution of class materials, including audio or video recordings and photographs, may violate federal privacy laws (such as FERPA), copyright laws, and the university's Code of Student Conduct. Suspected violators will be reported to the Office of Student Conduct (OSC). For students with accommodations or seeking note-taking or other accommodations, please work with the Disability Resource Office (DRO) to provide the necessary documentation.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Classroom Policies 
Instructors should include a statement in their course syllabus about the use of artificial intelligence (AI) generative tools in the course. These statements should clearly indicate whether and when the use of AI tools is permitted and outline the consequences for unauthorized usage. The Office of Faculty Excellence (OFE) provides resources to help navigate AI concerns in the classroom, including examples of syllabus language and a Guide for Students on AI Usage. DELTA offers sample syllabus statements with varying levels of restrictiveness and guidance for discussing ethical issues with students.
Additionally, the "AI and Plagiarism in the Classroom" workshop recording featuring Tom Hardiman from the Office of Student Conduct (OSC) provides suggestions for faculty on addressing AI concerns in the classroom. The "AI in the Classroom" workshop with Colin Keenan, an Experiential Librarian at NC State Libraries, includes links to teaching aids such as a Prompt Library and lesson planning tools that utilize generative AI. For more resources on AI for instructors, as well as in-class workshops on AI use, visit the NC State Libraries website.


